# Commit Message Format

This page documents our source control commit message format.

Use this format for commit messages, and when providing the log message for a patch.

```txt
Pkg-Module: Brief-single-line-summary

Full-commit-message

Signed-off-by: Contributor Name <contributor@email.server>
```

Where:

* **Pkg-Module**: The EDK II package and optionally the module.
* **Brief-single-line-summary**: A short summary of the change.
  * The length of `Pkg-Module: Brief-single-line-summary` should be less than 72 characters.
  * Changes for CVE fixes need to append CVE number in `Brief-single-line-summary`. The format is
   `Pkg-Module: Brief-single-line-summary (CVE-Year-Number)`. Its length should be less than 92 characters.
* Blank lines should be an empty line with no whitespace.
* `Full-commit-message` is the full message describing the change. It may include test items that have been verified.
  * Line length should be less than 76 characters when possible.
* Signatures is one or more lines with signatures. Please see the [Commit Signature Format](commit_signature_format.md)
  page for more information.
* The entire log message should use only standard ASCII text characters

An example would be:

```txt
Package/Module: Short one line description of change

Several lines of
description for the
change.

Signed-off-by: Contributor Name <contributor@email.server>
```

A CVE example would be:

```txt
Package/Module: Short one line description of change (CVE-2018-12180)

Several lines of
description for the
change.

Signed-off-by: Contributor Name <contributor@email.server>
```

Some commits span multiple packages. When the number of packages changed is fewer than 4, the expected commit message
form is:

```txt
Package,Package<,Package>/Module: Short one line description of change

Several lines of
description for the
change.

Signed-off-by: Contributor Name <contributor@email.server>
```

where each package is comma separated. If the number of packages is 4 or greater, the expected commit message form
is:

```txt
Global: Short one line description of change

Several lines of
description for the
change.

Signed-off-by: Contributor Name <contributor@email.server>
```

> After moving to the pull request contribution process, the `Cc`, `Reviewed-by`, `Acked-by`, and `Tested-by` tags are
> no longer required in commit messages.

Note: subject (top) lines generated by `git revert`, i.e. `Revert "Pkg-Module: ..."` are also permitted.

## See Also

* [Code-Style](../coding-standards/code_style.md)
* [Oneline Release Notes Generation](../../releases-history/release-artifacts/oneline_release_notes_generation.md)
