# Gsoc2022

## News

- TianoCore is a mentoring organization for the Google Summer of Code 2022
- Here is the [official GSoC 2022 timeline](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline)

## GSoC Contributors / Students

### Changes for 2022

- Beginning in 2022, eligibility for GSoC has expanded to all newcomers of open source that are 18 years and older. The
  program will no longer be solely focused on university students or recent graduates.
- In 2022, an option exists for more flexible project timelines. While the standard remains a 12-week development
  period, there is flexibility for this to range between 10 and 22 weeks. While we appreciate Google making this an
  option, we highly prefer the standard 12-week development period and will give preference to applications that
  complete development at the end of the summer.

### Medium versus Large Projects

- Large Projects should take about 350 hours to complete. Assuming 12 weeks of work, 29.2 hours per week.
- Medium Project should take about 175 hours to complete. Assuming 12 weeks of work, 14.6 hours per week.
- Large projects are paid a different stipend. Please see the [stipend
  page](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/help/student-stipends) for exact amounts.
- Project ideas on our [Tasks](../../governance/project-management/tasks.md) page are organized with medium and large
  broken out.
- In some cases, it may be possible to take two medium size projects and combine them into a large project. But the two
  medium projects need to be thematically related enough so that it is possible to write them as a single project
  proposal that makes sense.
- Do not take two completely unrelated medium projects and write a proposal that states: "I will finish project A by
July 25th and project B by September 5th."
- Ask us on the [edk2-devel](https://edk2.groups.io/g/devel) email list about the two medium projects you would like to
combine. We will give you our thoughts on the compatibility of those two projects and if it would make sense to write up
such a proposal.

### Next Steps

- Look over our [Tasks](../../governance/project-management/tasks.md) page and find one (or more) projects that sound
  interesting to you.
- You **must** submit your project proposal to the [TianoCore organization on the GSoC2022
  page](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2022/organizations/tianocore) before April 19, 2022, at 18:00 UTC.
  - There is an application template below
  - The application deadline is **final**, so don't be late!
- You can submit applications for more than one project if you find multiple projects interesting. Although, you can
only be able to be assigned to a single project in the end.
- Please join our [edk2-devel](https://edk2.groups.io/g/devel) email list and start asking about the project you are
  interested in.
  - Let us know if you need more information!

**More information**

- Feel free to suggest you own project idea. It is best to discuss your idea first on
  [edk2-devel](https://edk2.groups.io/g/devel).
- Tianocore GSoC page: TBD

Note: We primarily use the [BSD+Patent License](../../reference/legal-licenses/bsd_plus_patent_license.md), and it is generally expected
that your project will be completed utilizing this license.

## Application Template

GSoC Contributors/Students, please prepare a project proposal with the following
information:

- Contact information (email)
- Which time zone are you located in?
  - Note: This helps us assign mentors that are awake the same time as you.
- Personal description, qualifications
  - Skills
  - Past projects/experiences
  - Any previous open source contributions
- Explain your interest in UEFI or firmware
- Your plans for the project
  - High level plan
  - 1st draft timeline

This application/project proposal will need to be uploaded to the main GSoC website between [April 4, 2022 - April 19,
2022](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline). The accepted applications will be announced on [May
20th](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline).

For examples of previously done projects, please see [Complete Tasks#gsoc-2021](../../archives/complete_tasks.md#gsoc-2021).

To submit your application, visit the Google Summer of Code site, and submit your application with the TianoCore
project.

  [https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2022/organizations/tianocore](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/programs/2022/organizations/tianocore)

## Accepted GSoC Contributor Expectations

GSoC contributors that have their TianoCore GSoC proposals accepted are required to do the following during the 12-week
coding period ([June 13, 2022 - September 4](https://developers.google.com/open-source/gsoc/timeline)):

- Meet with their mentor(s) for 30min at absolute minimum on a weekly basis.
- Write a status update for their projects on a weekly basis and send it to the
  [edk2-devel](https://edk2.groups.io/g/devel) mailing list.

## Potential Mentors

If you are interested in mentoring a project:

- Please contact us on the [edk2-devel](https://edk2.groups.io/g/devel) email list or contact
  [@nate-desimone](https://github.com/nate-desimone).
- We would prefer mentors with experience with EDK II and/or other open source projects, especially those who have been
  long term contributors to the TianoCore project.
- All mentors must be able to commit to the following:
- During the GSoC contributor application period (April 4 - April 19), mentors need to be available to help review
contributor applications.
- On average, we expect each contributor will need roughly 10 hours of help each week for large projects (5 hours for
medium projects) during the 12 week development period (June 13 - September 12). Whenever possible we would like to
assign 2 mentors per contributor, this will reduce the time investment to ~5 or ~2.5 hours per week respectively.
- The contributor and their mentors should meet for 30min at absolute minimum on a weekly basis. The mentors should be
able to make themselves available for more time if the contributor requires additional mentoring. In general, mentors
should help their contributors succeed.
- Help the contributor get involved the rest of the TianoCore community. A lot of times, contributors have no prior open
source experience and can at times be shy. One of the goals for GSoC is to give contributors new experiences and
exposure to the open source community. Mentors should help contributors present their project at one of the TianoCore
Design Meetings and help them solicit feedback from other community members on the mailing list.
  - Mentors will need to write up 2 evaluations (July and August) for the contributors they are mentoring.

- If you have a project idea that you prefer to mentor, let us know about it.

## Contacts

For most questions, please email the [edk2-devel](https://edk2.groups.io/g/devel) email list. If this doesn't work,
contact [@nate-desimone](https://github.com/nate-desimone) directly.

## See Also

- [Tasks](../../governance/project-management/tasks.md)
- [GSoC2021](gsoc2021.md)
